# 2020-05

## Far From Making Nations More Insular, The Coronavirus Outbreak Will Transform Globalisation

### Summary

- Even before the outbreak, commentators were talking about "deglobalisation". Global trade had stopped rising and protectionist populism was on the rise, exemplified by Donald Trump's trade war with China and by Brexit.
- Rather than declining, globalisation is changing.
- First, it is becoming less a story of integration through container ships than of integration through societal alignment.
- Second, shifts in globalisation are prompting not a return to national borders but a retrenchment within reginal ones.
- Finally, Covid-19 will be a common exprience, aligning political debates and priorities in different countries and requiring a greater degree of global governance than currently exists.
- The result, then, will be not deglobalisation but an acceleration of globalisation's evolution into something less goods-centric, more reginal and more political.

## Why So Many Of America's Financial Elite Have Left Greenwich

### Summary

- Greenwich, Connecticut, with a population of 60,000, has long been home to titans of finance and industry.
- The 2007-08 financial crisis and hedge fund's fading fortunes depleted the state's coffers. In response it raised taxes, triggering an exodus that has lessons for rest of America about the risks of relying on low taxes to lure wealthy residents.

## How The Long History Of Human Violence Explains Why The Internet Causes So Much Chaos

### Summary

- The desire to belong among humans plays an outsized role in generating group violence of all kinds. This evolutionary desire to belong does not mean belonging to just any group of humans, but to a cohesive social group that protects you from violence, and give you access to resources and sexual parterns.
- The average human group size have grown over macro history. Violence and group size inversely corelate.
