# 2020-07

## Too Much Oil: How A Barrel Came To Be Worth Less Than Nothin

### Summary

- Such an eye-popping slide is the result of a quirk in the oil market, but it underscores the industry's disarray as the coronavirus pandemic decimates the world economy.
- Demand for oil is collapsing, and despite a deal by Saudi Arabia, Russia and other nations to cut production, the world is running out of places to put all the oil the industry keeps pumping out.
- Refiners are unwilling to turn oil into gasoline, diesel and other products because so few people are commuting or taking airplane flights, and international trade has slowed sharply. Oil is already being stored onn barges and in any nook and cranny companies can find. One of the better parts of the oil business these days is owning storage tankers.

## Freeman Dyson, Legendary Theoretical Physicist, Dies Ay 96

### Summary

- Freeman John Dyson was born on December 15, 1923, in Crowthorne, England.
- A great figure in 20th-century physics, Freeman J. Dyson -- the theorist who unified the world of the atom and the electron, a critic of nuclear weapons tests, a designer of space civilizations, and a steadfast climate change contrarian -- died on February 28, 2020, in Princeton, New Jersey.
- Dyson's improvement of the early understanding of how atoms behave was a major advance from earlier ideas regarding both relativity and quantum mechanics.
- His hypothetical Dyson Sphere, a megastructure that would encompass a star to capture its energy, was portrayed in novels.
- Although he would eventually receive some two dozen honorary degress, Dyson nenver completed his doctorate.

## Coronavirus And The Changing Perceptions Of Public Service

### Summary

- Before the coronavirus pandemic, few of us considered supermarkets, airlines or pubs to be anything other than private business looking to make a profit.
- Sectors of the economy once thought to be purely commercial are now talked about in language of public service.
- Official recognition that many private businesses provide public services is long overdue.
- The coronavirus crisis has magnified these ambiguities and blurred the division between the public and private sectors. The critical function of supermarkets is especially instructive in this regard.
- The pandemic may finally erode the 40-year economic bias against regulation.

## The Energy Revolution Is Here

### Summary

- For the longest time, the prevailing narrative about renewable energy featured clumsy technologies, high costs, and burdensome subsidies. In the absence of strict mandates and far-reaching policy changes, the chances for mass adoption seemed slim.
- But now that these techologies have come of age, a new story is being written.
- Owing to advances in information techologies, green solutions can be integrated into business operations seamlessly.
- In fact, the transformation is hapenning even faster than we think, owing to three key factors.
- First, sustainable-energy techologies are quickly becoming more cost-effective than the alternatives.
- Second, while each breakthrough makes a big difference on its own, the combination of new techologies magnifies the impact.
- Finally, the political environment is rapidly changing.

## Loneliness Is A Modern Invention. Understanding That History Can Help Us Get Through This Pandemic

### Summary

- Loneliness has become a "plague", an "epidemic" or "pandemic" that afflicts young and old alike. Its intersection with another pandemic -- COVID-19 -- is creating widespread alarm.
- Before 1800, loneliness wasn't event a word in regular use in the English language. Where it was used, it meant the same as a much more common term: oneliness, the state of being alone.
- For loneliness to exist, two things are needed: a lack of meaning in one's relationships and a sense of the self as separate from others. In pre-modern society, religion gave meaning to all existence, and there was less emphasis on the uniqueness of the individual.
- By the next century, modernity had brought uncertainty as well as freedom.
- Urbanization dirupted traditional communities and created  physical distance from others. Economic individualism was justified by Darwinian ideals about the survival of the fittest. Existential philosophy searched for meaning without God.
- This is the historical context in which the language if loneliness was invented, and it has subsequently been maintained by neoliberal.

