# 2020-02

## Brexit Is Going To Get Done. But On Whose Terms?

### Summary

- Prime Minister Boris Johnson's landslide election victory Thursday clarifies British politics in one important respect: Efforts to reverse the Brexit referendum are now dead.
- Mr.Johnson's Conservative Party rode a wave of frustrated working-class voters to a decisive majority in Parliament, radically realigning British politics and reshaping Britain's oldest party.
- The voters who gave Mr.Johnson the largest Conservative majority since Margaret Thatcher share few of the free-trade or deregulatory instincts of the Brexiteers who masterminded Mr.Johnson's campaign or filled his last cabinet. These voters want safe jobs, protection from imports and the restoration of a Britain that vanished in the contrails of the global economy.
- The Conservative have now become the party of those left behind by the forces of globalization while also being the party of free trade. All Boris Johnson has to do is satisfy both.
- Mr.Johnson also has to content with resurgent nationalist movements in Scotland and Northern Ireland, both of which fiercely oppose Brexit and could use that as grounds to break away from the United Kingdom.

## 80 Percent Of Teens Do Not Exercise Enough: WHO

### Summary

- The first ever global trends for adolescent insufficient physical activity show that urgent action is needed to increase physical activity levels in girls and boys aged 11 to 17 years.
- The authors say that levels of insufficient physical activity in adolescents continue to be extremely high, compromising their current and future health.

## Paul Volcker, Fed Chairman Who Reined In Runaway Inflation, Dies At 92

### Summary

- Paul A. Volcker, the powerful Federal Reserve chairman whose grit and determination helped break the back of inflation in the early 1980s and put the America economy on a path to extended growth, died on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 92.
- Volcker's career in economics and public service spanned seven decades and several administrations.
- He was a vocal critic of the banking industry's culture of excessive risk-taking, pushing to limit the power of big banks and their investment activities.

## Tensions Highlight The Importance Of Global Trade

### Summar

- Global trade used to be a slightly worthy topic -- loved by economists and confined to the financial pages of newspapers. But recent high profile trade rows have changed all that, underlining its value and importance to us all.
- Looking at the news headlines, it is easy to think that trade flows are going into reverse. Yet step back from the headlines, and take the longer view, and things look different.
- The growth in global trade may have slowed to 3.0% this yera -- the lowest since the 2009 recession -- according to International Monetary Fund, but the tread is still upward.
- In modern history, there have two long waves of globalization. The first started after the Napoleonic wars in 1815 and eneded with World War One. The second started after 1945 and is still continuing.

### Words

- rows: 严重分歧，纠纷
  - Global trade used to be a slightly worthy topic -- loved by economists and confined to the financial pages of newspapers. But recent high profile trade `rows` have changed all that, underlining its value and importance to us all.

## Masters Of The Universe: The Rise Of The Financial Machines

### Summary

- The job of capital markets is to process information so that savings flow to best projects and firms. It reflects a changing world. Todays' markets, for instance, are grappling with a trade war and low interest rates.
- Because it deals in huge sums, finance has always had the cash to adopt breakthroughs early.
- All te while, computers are gaining autonomy. Software programs using AI devise their own strategies without needing human guidance.
- Util now the rise of computers has democratised finance by cutting costs.
- For decades company boards have been voted in and out of office by fund managers on behalf of their clients. What if those shares are run by computers that are agnostic, or worse, have been programmed to pursue a narrow objective such as getting firms to pay a dividend at all cost?
- The broad principle of market regulation are eternal: equal treatment of all customers, equal access to information and the promotion of competition. However, the computing revolution looks as if it will make today's rules look horribly out of date. Human investors are about to discover that they are no longer the smartest guys in he room.

## Technology And Society: Pessimism V Progress

### Summary

- Faster, cheaper, better - technology is one field many people rely upon to offer a vision of a brighter future. But as the 2020s dawn, optimism is in short supply. The new technologies that dominated the past decade seem to be making things worse.
- Today's gloomy mood is centred on smartphones and social media, which took off a decade ago.
- However, that pessimism can be overdone. Too often people focus on the drawbacks of a new technology while taking its benefits for granted.
- Perhaps the real source of anxiety is not technology itself, but growingn doubts about the ability of societies to hold this debate, and come up with good anwers. In that sense, techno-pessimism is a symtom of political pessimism.
- Yes, the planet is warming and antibiotic resistance is spreading. But the solution to such problems call for the deployment of more technology, not less. So as the decade turns, put aside the gloom for a moment. To be alive in the tech-obsessed 2020s is to be among the luckiest people who have ever lived.

## How One German City Developed - And Then Lost - Generations Of Math Geniuses

### Summary

- Although relatively unknown today, Göttingen, a small German university town, was for a time one of the most productive centers of mathematics in history.
- Göttingen's rise to mathematical primacy occured over generations, but its fall took less than a decade when its stars were pushed abroad by the advent of National Socialism, the ideology of the Nazi Party.
- The university's best minds left Germany in the early 1930s, transferring its substantial mathematical legacy to Princeton, New York University, and other British and American universities.
- In 1734, King George II, who ruled both the United Kingdom and a large area of land in Northern Europe, founded a university inn Göttingen, Germany.

## America's Misguided War On Chinese Technology

### Summary

- The decision to invade Iraq followed the illogic of then US vice-president Richard Cheney, who declared that even if the risk of WMD falling into terrorist hands was tiny -- say, 1% -- we should act as if that scenario would certainly occur.
- That is what US leaders are doing again: creating a panic over Chinese technology companies by raising, and exaggerating, tiny risks.
- A "back door" in Huawei's software or hardware, US officials claim, could enable the Chinese government to engage in surveillance around the world. After all, US officials note, China's laws require Chinese compaines to cooperate with the government for purpose of national security.
- Ironically, though predictably, the US complaints partly reflect America's own surveillance activities at home and abroad. Chinese equipment might make secret surveillance by the US government more diffcult.
