# 2020-06

## AIDS Crisis Shaped Anthony Fauci, Disease Expert At Front Lines Of Coronavirus Pandemic

### Summary

- Appointed director of NIAID in 1984, under President Reagan, the veteran scientist and HIV/AIDS researcher has spearheaded the nation's approach to preventing, diagnosing and treating epidemics for nearly four decades, advising six U.S. predidents.
- As a clincian, Fauci made significant breakthroughs in understanding how HIV destroys the body's immune system and helped develop strategies to bolster immune defense.
- At the White House, Fauci has not shied away from veering from Trump's message.
- Asked last week how he had managed to avoid being fired, Fauci told Science magazine that Trump listened, even if they at times disagreed.
- The grandson of Sicilian immigrants, Fauci was born in 1940 in Brooklyn and grew up in an apartment above his father's pharmacy, helping the family business by delivering prescriptions by bike.

## Big Tech: How To Make Sense Of The Latest Tech Surge

### Summary

- Even as regulators discuss new rules and activits fret about the right to privacy, the shares of the five biggest American tech firms have been on a jaw-dropping bull run over the past 12 months, rising by 52%.
- This surge in tech giants' share prices raises two worries.
- One is whether investors have stoked a speculative bubble.
- The other, opposite concern is that investors may be right. The big tech firms' supersized valuations suggest their profits will double or so in the next decade, causing far greater ecnomic tremors in rich countries and an alarming concentrarion of ecnomic and political power.
- Consumers say they care about privacy but act if they care much more about getting stuff, and preferably without having to pay for it in cash.

## Stop The Coronavirus Stigma Now

### Summary

- For years, it was common for viral diseases to be associated with the landscapes, places or regions where the first outbreaks occurred -- as in Middle East respiratory syndrome, or Zika virus, named after a forest in Uganda.
- But in 2015, the WHO introduced guidelines to stop this practice and thereby reduce stigma and negative impacts such as fear or anger directed towards those regions or their people.

## Disease In A World Without A Leader

### Summary

- Many people blame the coronavirus epidemic on globalization and say the only way to prevent more such outbreaks is to deglobalize the world: build walls, restrict travel, reduce trade. However, while short-term quarantine is essential to stop epidemics, long-term isolationism will lead to econimic collapse without offering any real protection against infectious disease. Just the opposite. The real antidote to epidemics is cooperation.
- Despite horrendous outbreaks such as AIDS and Ebola, epidemics kiil a far smaller proportion of human in the 21st century than in any previous time since the Stone Age. This is because the best defense humans have against pathogens is not isolation; it is information.
- What does this history teach us for the current coronavirus epidemic? First, it implies that you cannot protect yourself by permanently closing your borders. Second, history indicates that real protection comes from the sharing of reliable scientific information, and from global solidarity.
- If this epidemic results in greater disunity and mistrust among humans, it will be virus' greatest victory. When huamns squabble, viruses double. In contrast, if the epidemic results in closer global cooperation, it will be a victory not only against the coronavirus, but against all future pathogens.

## What Makes Viruses Like COVID-19 Such A Risk For Human Begins? The Answer Goes Back Thousands Of Years

### Summary

- The sniffling, sneezing, coughing afflications that stalk us from birth to old age are a distint feature of life as a human being. In all, human are afflicated by dozens of respiratory viruses that evolved to specialize in the exploitation of us.
- Our chimpanzee cousins -- who live in the jungle, eat raw monkey for breakfast, never bathe and make a habit of chewing on their own feces -- suffer only a fraction of the viral diversity that we do.
- The distinctive human disease pool -- and its array of respiratory viruses in particular -- is a product of our distinctive history as a species. We are the sneezing ape.
- The hunter-gatherer germ pool was probably closer to the chimpanzee germ pool than to modern human collection of infectious diseases.
- The great respiratory viruses that are such a feature of human history were not an immediate consequence of the Neolithic Revolution.
- In the Iron Age, the period of great empire-building across Eurasia some two thousand years ago, settlements in China, South Asia, the Near East, and the Mediterranean were scale up.
- Respiratory transmiission generally requires close contact and large population sizes.

## In Fight Against Coronavirus, The World Gives Medical Heros A Standing Ovation

### Summary

- Stir-crazy in their locked-down homes, the phenomenon of stepping onto the balcony in the evening, flinging open the windows, to applaud health-care workers fighting the coronavirus onn the front lines has gone global.
- Part balm, part defiance, part celebration -- we're still here! -- the practice has migrated, alongside the virus and enforced quarantine, from the Chinses epicenter of Wuhan to the medieval villages of Lombardy, from Milan to Madrid, onto Paris, and now London.

## China-Europe Rail Is Set To Boom As COVID-19 Chokes Air, Sea And Road Transport

### Summary

- Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, dozens of countries around the world have effectively shut down their economies -- factories have been closed, shops shuttered and supply chains have been tossed into disarray. In this fray, an unexpected form of trans-continental transport is rising to the top: trans-Eurasia rail.
- The China-Europe rail product has been much maligned and criticized throughtout its existence.
- The only form of transport left standing is the train, which, compared to other forms of freight continues to run relatively unscathed.
