# 2020-02

## Brexit Is Going To Get Done. But On Whose Terms?

### Summary

- Prime Minister Boris Johnson's landslide election victory Thursday clarifies British politics in one important respect: Efforts to reverse the Brexit referendum are now dead.
- Mr.Johnson's Conservative Party rode a wave of frustrated working-class voters to a decisive majority in Parliament, radically realigning British politics and reshaping Britain's oldest party.
- The voters who gave Mr.Johnson the largest Conservative majority since Margaret Thatcher share few of the free-trade or deregulatory instincts of the Brexiteers who masterminded Mr.Johnson's campaign or filled his last cabinet. These voters want safe jobs, protection from imports and the restoration of a Britain that vanished in the contrails of the global economy.
- The Conservative have now become the party of those left behind by the forces of globalization while also being the party of free trade. All Boris Johnson has to do is satisfy both.
- Mr.Johnson also has to content with resurgent nationalist movements in Scotland and Northern Ireland, both of which fiercely oppose Brexit and could use that as grounds to break away from the United Kingdom.

## 80 Percent Of Teens Do Not Exercise Enough: WHO

### Summary

- The first ever global trends for adolescent insufficient physical activity show that urgent action is needed to increase physical activity levels in girls and boys aged 11 to 17 years.
- The authors say that levels of insufficient physical activity in adolescents continue to be extremely high, compromising their current and future health.

## Paul Volcker, Fed Chairman Who Reined In Runaway Inflation, Dies At 92

### Summary

- Paul A. Volcker, the powerful Federal Reserve chairman whose grit and determination helped break the back of inflation in the early 1980s and put the America economy on a path to extended growth, died on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 92.
- Volcker's career in economics and public service spanned seven decades and several administrations.
- He was a vocal critic of the banking industry's culture of excessive risk-taking, pushing to limit the power of big banks and their investment activities.
