# 1 什么是经济学

经济学的三类问题（从小到大，一二是微观经济学、三是宏观经济学）：

- How People Make Decisions
- How People Interact
- How the Economy as a Whole Works

## 1.1 经济学的十个原理

### How People Make Decisions

##### 1. People face tradeoffs.

- To get oen thing, we usually have to give up another thing.

##### 2. The cost of something is what you give up to get it.

- People decide whether to do one thing or not by considering its costs and benefits.
- However, making decisions requires trading off this thing against other alternatives.

The `opportunity cost` of an item is what you give up to obtain that item.

##### 3. Rational people think at the margin.

- People make optional decisions by comparing costs and benefits at the margin.

`Marginal changes` are small, incremental adjustments to an existing plan of action.

##### 4. People respond to incentives.

- Marginal changes in costs or benefits motivate people to respond.
- The decision to choose one alternative over another occurs when that alternative's marginal benefits exceed its marginal costs.

### How People Interact

##### 5. Trade can make everyone better off.

- People gain from their ability to trade with one another.
- Competition results in gains from trading.
- Trade allows people to `specialize` in what they do best.

##### 6. Markets are usually a good way to organize economic activity.

- In a `market economy`, households decide what to buy and who to work for.
- Firms decide who to hire and what to produce.
- Adam Smith made the observation that `households` and `firms` interacting in markets act as if guided by an `invisibale hand.`（看不见的手实际上就是市场价格）
- Because households and firms look at prices when deciding what to buy and sell, they unknowingly take into account the social benefits and costs of their actions.
- As a result, prices guide decision makers to reach outcomes that tend to maximize the welfare of society as a whole.

##### 7. Goverments can sometimes improve market outcomes.

改进两个地方：

- 效率（市场失灵等）
- 公平

`Market failure` occurs when the market fails to allocate resources efficiently.

市场失灵的两种原因：

- 外部性
  - Markey failure may by caused by an `externality`, which is the impact of one person or firm's actions on `the well-being of a bystander`.（不是通过价格来影响）
- 市场势力
  - Market failure may also be caused by `market power`, which is the ability of a single person or firm to unduly influence market prices.

### How the Economy as a Whole Works

##### 8. The standard of living depends on a country's production.

Standard of living may be measured in different ways:

- By comparing personal incomes.
- By comparing the total market value of a nation's production.

Almost all variations in living standards are explained by differences in countries' `productivities.`

`Productivity` is the amount of goods and services produced from each `hour` of a worker's time.（注意是用小时来衡量，因为有些国家假期多，工作时间短。所以用小时来度量）

##### 9. Prices rise when the governmennt prints too much money.

`Inflation` is an increase in the `overall` level of prices in the economy.

- One cause of inflation is the growth in the quantity of money.

##### 10. Society faces a short-run tradeoff between inflation and unemployment.

The `Phillips Curve` illustrates the tradeoff between inflation and unemployment.

- By changing `the amount that the government spends`, `the amount it taxes`, and `the amount of money it prints`, policy makers can, in the short run, influence the combination of inflation and unemployment that the economy experiences.
